Author: William Ting
Date: 2012-08-02
Title: GUADEC 2012
Tags: gnome, guadec
Status: draft

After the initial culture shock of attending my first Linux conference (let's just say the dress code was casual), the annual GNOME conference was highly informative and productive.

## Tor: Anonymity Online – Jacob Appelbaum

Jacob explained the Tor project, the necessity for network anonymity, and [onion routing][or]. Arab Spring resulted in a huge spike for Tor usage in affected countries.

At the same time, Jacob stressed the necessity for more [Tor exit relays][tor-relay] in the network. Even if you can't contribute exit relays to the Tor project, simply using Tor to browse regular websites helps the project.

## OCR Feeder - Joaquim Rocha

Given the problems with paper (accessibility, organic degradation), people want to create a digital copy of documents. While OCR engines are a great tool, but they only translate text and the end result are digital documents that have lost all of the original formatting.

Joaquim Rocha built OCR Feeder to create files that retained layout information from scanned documents using existing OCR engines. In addition, OCR Feeder recognizes image blocks and tags them as such.

- problems with paper
    - accessibility (handicap)
    - paper degrades, organic

- OCR engines exist, but OCR != Document Conversion
    - only deals with chars
    - doesn't consider layout
    - doesn't care about content

- Image recognition to see blocks and group layouts
- tesseract-ocr engine built by HP, continued by Google
- other free OCR engines
    - Tesseract
    - GOCR
    - OCRAD
    - Cuneiform

## Gnome Bazaar - Daniel Siegel

- studying FOSS history and project layout

### history and origin

- diverse origin
- small group of founders
- big growth at start

### community structure

- hierarchical
    - roughly 3 tier heiarchy
        - expert
        - core dev
        - dev
- lead by leader / team

- GNOME
    - missing visionary
    - role of rt
    - unfruitful discussions

- features dev

## Gnome Documents - Cosimo Cecchi

- Different approach
    - in the elements of the UI
    - towards your data

- Content rather than files
- I want to find something but I don't care where it is

## Crowdfunding GNOME Applications - Jim Nelson, Adam Dingle

- contract work pays Yorba
- humble bundle
- gamification / monetization of package managers

## Lightning Talk

- blah

## University Students

- need to springboard GNOME dev
- GTKApp, AppMenu tutorials
- gnome-love activity and apps
- more and better defined gnome-love bite sized projects
- GTK3 tutorials
- anjuta?

## Open Source to Open Everything, Alex Skud Bayley

## People

David Mason, Garrett, personification, human, Daniel, Mariana,

[or]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onion_routing
[tor-relay]: https://www.eff.org/pages/tor-challenge
[botte]: http://blogs.gnome.org/otte/2012/07/27/staring-into-the-abyss/
[cschaller]: http://blogs.gnome.org/uraeus/2012/07/31/the-future-of-gnome/
